content/authors/Julio-Vega/_index.md, before:

---
# Display name
name: Julio Vega

# Username (this should match the folder name)
authors:
- "Julio Vega"

# Is this the primary user of the site?
superuser: false

# Role/position
role: Postdoctoral Researcher

# Organizations/Affiliations
organizations:
- name: Website
  url: "https://juliovega.info/"
- name: University of Bristol
  url: "http://www.bristol.ac.uk/engineering/research/digital-health/"
- name: University of Manchester
  url: "https://www.cs.manchester.ac.uk/"

# Short bio (displayed in user profile at end of posts)
bio: I investigate personalised methodologies to monitor chronic conditions that affect daily human behaviour using mobile and wearable data.

interests:
- Digital Health
- Ubiquitous Computing
- HCI

education:
  courses:
  - course: PhD in Computer Science
    institution: The University of Manchester
    year: 2019
  
# Social/Academic Networking
# For available icons, see: https://sourcethemes.com/academic/docs/widgets/#icons
#   For an email link, use "fas" icon pack, "envelope" icon, and a link in the
#   form "mailto:your-email@example.com" or "#contact" for contact widget.
social:
- icon: envelope
  icon_pack: fas
  link: 'mailto:julio.vega@manchester.ac.uk'  # For a direct email link, use "mailto:test@example.org".
- icon: twitter
  icon_pack: fab
  link: https://twitter.com/julio_ui
- icon: google-scholar
  icon_pack: ai
  link: https://scholar.google.co.uk/citations?user=JjVygEEAAAAJ&hl=en
- icon: github
  icon_pack: fab
  link: https://github.com/JulioV
# Link to a PDF of your resume/CV from the About widget.
# To enable, copy your resume/CV to `static/files/cv.pdf` and uncomment the lines below.  
# - icon: cv
#   icon_pack: ai
#   link: files/cv.pdf

# Enter email to display Gravatar (if Gravatar enabled in Config)
email: ""
  
# Organizational groups that you belong to (for People widget)
#   Set this to `[]` or comment out if you are not using People widget.  
user_groups:
- Honorary Research Fellows
# - Visitors
---

Julio Vega investigates personalised methodologies to monitor chronic conditions that affect daily human behaviour using mobile and wearable data. In the long term, his goal is to explore how to enable patients to inform, amend, and evaluate their health tracking algorithms to improve disease self-management.

Commit message:

Update description for Julio Vega

content/authors/Julio-Vega/_index.md, after:

---
# Display name
name: Julio Vega

# Username (this should match the folder name)
authors:
- "Julio Vega"

# Is this the primary user of the site?
superuser: false

# Role/position
role: Postdoctoral Researcher

# Organizations/Affiliations
organizations:
- name: Personal Website
  url: "https://juliovega.info/"
- name: University of Bristol
  url: "http://www.bristol.ac.uk/engineering/research/digital-health/"
- name: University of Manchester
  url: "https://www.cs.manchester.ac.uk/"

# Short bio (displayed in user profile at end of posts)
bio: I investigate personalised methodologies to monitor chronic conditions that affect daily human behaviour using mobile and wearable data.

interests:
- Digital Health
- Ubiquitous Computing
- HCI

education:
  courses:
  - course: PhD in Computer Science
    institution: The University of Manchester
    year: 2019
  
# Social/Academic Networking
# For available icons, see: https://sourcethemes.com/academic/docs/widgets/#icons
#   For an email link, use "fas" icon pack, "envelope" icon, and a link in the
#   form "mailto:your-email@example.com" or "#contact" for contact widget.
social:
- icon: envelope
  icon_pack: fas
  link: 'mailto:julio.vega@manchester.ac.uk'  # For a direct email link, use "mailto:test@example.org".
- icon: twitter
  icon_pack: fab
  link: https://twitter.com/julio_ui
- icon: google-scholar
  icon_pack: ai
  link: https://scholar.google.co.uk/citations?user=JjVygEEAAAAJ&hl=en
- icon: github
  icon_pack: fab
  link: https://github.com/JulioV
# Link to a PDF of your resume/CV from the About widget.
# To enable, copy your resume/CV to `static/files/cv.pdf` and uncomment the lines below.  
# - icon: cv
#   icon_pack: ai
#   link: files/cv.pdf

# Enter email to display Gravatar (if Gravatar enabled in Config)
email: ""
  
# Organizational groups that you belong to (for People widget)
#   Set this to `[]` or comment out if you are not using People widget.  
user_groups:
- Honorary Research Fellows
# - Visitors
---

I investigate **personalised** methodologies to monitor **chronic conditions** that affect **daily human behaviour** using mobile and wearable data. In the long term, my goal is to explore how we can enable patients to inform, amend, and evaluate their health tracking algorithms to improve disease self-management.

**University of Bristol**. We are working on self-harm and binge eating episode detection using smartphone interactions. I am a Research Associate at the [Digital Health](http://www.bris.ac.uk/engineering/research/digital-health/?_ga=2.21049336.2107843035.1557739749-1608399595.1557739749) group of the Department of Computer Science working with [Roisin McNaney](http://www.bristol.ac.uk/engineering/people/roisin-mcnaney/index.html).

**University of Oulu** We are studying how to improve Parkinson's medication adherence using a mobile game as part of the [STOP](http://ubicomp.oulu.fi/stop-sentient-tracking-of-parkinsons-funded-by-the-academy-of-finland-ict-2023-programme/) project. I am a visiting researcher at the [Ubicomp Lab](http://ubicomp.oulu.fi/) of the University of Oulu, Finland working closely with [Denzil Ferreira](https://www.oulu.fi/university/researcher/denzil-ferreira)'s team.

**University of Manchester** We explored a personalised, unobtrusive and clinical-informed methodology to track self-reported fluctuations in pain, gait, and fatigue in Parkinson's. I received a PhD in Computer Science during my stay at the [Interaction Analysis and Modelling Lab](http://www.cs.manchester.ac.uk/our-research/laboratories/iam/) supervised by [Simon Harper](http://www.manchester.ac.uk/research/simon.harper/), [Caroline Jay](http://www.manchester.ac.uk/research/caroline.jay/) and [Markel Vigo](http://www.markelvigo.info/).
